# LayoutInflater
It is a class used to create views from XML layout resources programmatically. **Essentially, it converts an XML layout fil into its corresponding `View` objects.**  
When a lyout file in XML is declared, Android doesn't immediately create the `View` objects. `LayoutInflater` takes care of "inflating" the layout, which means converting the XML layout description into actual views that you can interact with.

# ActivityMainBinding.inflate(layoutInflater)
It is using `Biew Binding`, a feature in Android that makes it easier to interact with views in layouts.  
It generates a binding class for each XML layout file. 

When `ActivityMainBinding.inflate(layoutInflater)` is called
This binding class contains direct references to all the views in the layout, removing the need for `findViewById()`
- **Inflating the layout** takes XML file (`activity_main.xml`) and inflates it into an actual `View` object.
- **Creating a binding object** (`ActivityMainBinding`) is generated by Android Studio (based on your layout file's name: `activity_main.xml`).
  The `inflate()` method returns an instance of `ActivityMainBinding`, which holds references to all the views defined in your XML. 

This allows us yo access views directly through `binding`, like `binding.mainBtn` for the button with `id="mainBtn"` in our XML file, without calling `findViewById()`.

# Example
```kt
private lateinit var binding : ActivityMainBinding
override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?){
  super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
  binding = ActivityMainBinding.inflate(layoutInflater)
  setContentView(binding.root)
  binding.mainBtn.setOnClickListner{
    val intent = Intent(this, secondActivity::class.java)
    startActivity(intent)
    finish()
  }
}
```
- `ActivityMainBinding` : is the generated binding class for our `activity_main.xml` layout file.
- `inflate(layoutInflater)` : inflates the layout and returns an instance of the `ActivityMainBinding` class, which now contains references to all the views in our layout.
- `binding.root` : refers to the root `View` of our layout. This ensures that entire layout is shown when the activity starts.

# Summary
- `LayoutInflater` **converts XML layout into actual `View` objects**.
- `ActivityMainBinding.inflate(layoutInflater)` is used to inflate the layout and obtain a binding object that lets us access out views without `findViewById()`.
- **View Binding** makes code cleaner and safer by **ensuring views are properly referenced and reducing potential null pointer exceptions**.

